- One of the biggest issues I have seen
in run-time application management
is that systems administrators
look at processes, whereas developers look at applications.
This is even more apparent in the monolithic model
of a single application server hosting many applications.
To a systems administrator, there is one process
and that is the application server itself.
They have no visibility into the applications
running inside of the container.
Now some teams have built a hybrid position
called an application administrator
to deal with this discrepancy
between the systems administrators and the developers.
12 factor methodologies deal with this problem
in a different way.
Applications themselves are deployed
as one or more processes instead of embedding them
in another process.
So the focus becomes one and the same.
As a developer, this would be akin to running the
Hello World program from the command line
and indeed, that is what a 12 factor application is doing.
Obviously with much more complex code.
Before we get too deep into the how,
let's talk for moment about the why.
In a 12 factor application,
you're running processes that are stateless.
You should assume that there is no guarantee
that data in memory will be either outside the run-time
of the current process.
In fact, relying on data either in the file system
or in memory from operation to operation,
is a violation of the premise of this factor.
Memory usage should be single threaded,
and short lived.
Anything that needs to be stored
from operation to operation needs to leverage a database
or a cache.
This becomes even more critical
as we look at the life cycle of a 12 factor application
and how applications can have instances created,
destroyed or scaled at will.
When dealing with sessions,
12 factor looks at sticky sessions
as a violation of the methodology.
So you should use technology for caching session data
in an external data store
instead of using local memory.
Now, let's talk about converting legacy applications
to using this factor.
This can be challenging in its own right.
But it's definitely very doable.
The first place I would look
are the frameworks in your language
that can be used to convert your application
to a single process.
One example is a technology that allows the application
server to run inside of the application
instead of the other way around.
In addition to changing how your application starts
and runs, you also need to evaluate your memory usage.
Cache technologies are always an option to leverage
cases where you are relying on the memory of the system.
But there are also ways to re-write your application
and specify API calls,
to make your application truly stateless.
As with all of this,
you have to change how you think
about application development itself.
And in many cases, it is getting back to the basics
of how you learn to write code.
Simplify your system.
Remove complexities and move forward.